# Internal Validation
One of TRAC's validation methods is termed "internal validation". Internal validation is the process of determining the amount to which the data is valid by looking solely at what is in the file. TRAC goes through the internal validation process by determining plausability and preciseness between columns. It is also important to look at the data itself and the date the file was released to determine if the information is valid.

As mentioned in level 1 of validation, determining the date that the data was last updated is critical to verifying the released figures. There are multiple ways to do this including through TRAC's website, news articles and dates listed within the file itself.

After verifying the date of the data by using methods listed in the Validation Level 1 section, plausability should be determined. This may seem like a broad request, but it is actually easier than one may think. One may determine plausability by simply thinking about the figures listed. For example, is it realistic that there was only $5.00 of spending for defense strategies? Certainly not. There may be mistakes such as this that require a careful eye to catch. One may always back up plausability by finding outside sources to compare figures to. 

The final step of internal validation is to ensure that figures in the rows and columns of the document add up to one another. Start by adding any rows and columns up to make sure that the value listed in any total column is correct. If the file has a lot of sections, it may be simpler to do this in parts. If there are multiple tabs, one may wish to compare values across tabs. This is the final step of internal validation.
